## Commit Message Guidelines

```
Short (72 chars or less) summary

More detailed explanatory text. Wrap it to 72 characters. The blank
line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
the body entirely).

Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages
generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

- Bullet points are okay, too.
- Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a
  single space. Use a hanging indent.
```

### Example for a commit message

```
Add CPU arch filter scheduler support

In a mixed environment of…
```

### A properly formed git commit subject line should always be able to complete the following sentence

If applied, this commit will _\<your subject line here\>_

### Rules for a great git commit message style

- Separate subject from body with a blank line
- Do not end the subject line with a period
- Capitalize the subject line and each paragraph
- Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Use the imperative mood ("Move cursor to..." not "Moves cursor to...")
- Wrap lines at 72 characters or less
- Use the body to explain what and why you have done something. In most cases, you can leave out details about how a change has been made.
- When only changing documentation, include `[ci skip]` in the commit title

### Information in commit messages

- Describe why a change is being made.
- How does it address the issue?
- What effects does the patch have?
- Do not assume the reviewer understands what the original problem was.
- Do not assume the code is self-evident/self-documenting.
- Read the commit message to see if it hints at improved code structure.
- The first commit line is the most important.
- Describe any limitations of the current code.
- Do not include patch set-specific comments.

Details for each point and good commit message examples can be found on https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/GitCommitMessages#Information_in_commit_messages

- Consider starting the commit message with an applicable emoji:
  - :seedling: `:seedling:` when adding features or enhancements
  - :art: `:art:` when improving the format/structure of the code
  - :racehorse: `:racehorse:` when improving performance
  - :non-potable_water: `:non-potable_water:` when plugging memory leaks
  - :memo: `:memo:` when writing docs
  - :bug: `:bug:` when fixing a bug
  - :fire: `:fire:` when removing code or files
  - :green_heart: `:green_heart:` when fixing the CI build
  - :white_check_mark: `:white_check_mark:` when adding tests
  - :lock: `:lock:` when dealing with security
  - :arrow_up: `:arrow_up:` when upgrading dependencies
  - :arrow_down: `:arrow_down:` when downgrading dependencies
  - :shirt: `:shirt:` when removing linter warnings
  - :rocket: `:rocket` when committing for release

### References in commit messages

If the commit refers to an issue, add this information to the commit message header or body. e.g. the GitHub web platform automatically converts issue ids (e.g. #123) to links referring to the related issue. For issues tracker like Jira there are plugins which also converts Jira tickets, e.g. [Jirafy](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jirafy/npldkpkhkmpnfhpmeoahhakbgcldplbj).

In header:

```
[#123] Refer to GitHub issue…
```

```
CAT-123 Refer to Jira ticket with project identifier CAT…
```

In body:

```
…
Fixes #123, #124
```

### Sources

- http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
- https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/GitCommitMessages
- http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/
